In this lab we're going to cover the elastic container registry. ECR is a fully managed docker container
registry and it's where you store the images of your containers so you store images in the registry
and then those images are pulled down based on your task definition and they're pulled down to create
your task or your actual container itself.
What we're going to do in this lab is we're going to create an EC2 instance.
We're going to install Docker on that instance where then going to download Ubuntu image and we're going
to make some modifications to it and then we're going to upload that image to the registry and then
deploy a Fargate cluster and actually use our image and deploy a task using our Custom Image.
Now it's a little bit beyond the scope of the exam for the exam you just need to know what the ECR
is and you need to know that it can work with both the Fargate cluster launch type and the EC2
launch type and check out the FAQs just for a few more background details but from an operational
perspective you won't need to know how to run some of the commands so it's fully up to you if you want
to continue with this lab or not but it should be some fun.
So let's get into the console and launch an instance.
I'm just going to choose the Amazon Linux 2
AMI, going to put it into my custom VPC choose a public subnet and I don't need to change any of details.
Just give a security group that gives me port twenty to four secure shall access and I can launch that
instance copy the IP to my clipboard and now I'm going to go into a command line and let's try and SSH
into this instance and it is ready.
So let's go in and I just want to update my packages.
I'm going to run sudo um update -y.
And I also need to get some permissions.
So I'm gonna run was configure put in my access key and secret ID, and remember don't share these
normally. ap-southeast-2 is my region.
That's my default region and that's all I need to do there.
And then we're going to run pseudo Amazon bash Linux bash extras install Docker and sometimes it hangs
for a couple or even a few minutes before it actually completes the installation it kinda looks like
it's not working but you just gotta be patient.
So the installation is properly started now and you just have to click on yes type in Y
and that's complete and we can type "sudo service Docker start" and that should be started and then
we're going to run "sudo systemctl enable docker" so that it starts.
I miss that.
So it should be sudo and this is gonna ensure that it restarts after a reboot.
And then what we want to do is change some permissions we're going to do sudo use a more dash a dash
G Docker EC2 use a and that means we can run commands as the EC2 use it rather than switching
to route we now run Docker info we might get permissions problems and if so what we need to do is we're
just going to run pseudo shut down the shore and so I'm going to restart the system and then hopefully
I'll come up with the right permissions.
So I'm back on my system and I'm just gonna type Docker info again and it looks better this time so
we can continue and what I'm going to do is I'm going to do touch Docker file.
So it's just going to create a file called Docker file and then I'm going to use nano to edit the docker
file and I'm going to paste some information into it.
Now I'm actually following through closely with this web page in this article.
So this tutorial takes you through basics for Amazon ECS.
So dot so Docker basics for Amazon ECS.
And if you scroll down you'll see this code.
Now all I've done is just edited some of the information that's output rather than being hello world.
And this will also be available in the course downloads.
So I'm going to save my file
and then I'm going to run docker build the DCT container and I realised my error and what I need to do
is put a dot on the end here
so that's going to download.
This has been to image according to the doc a file that we created.
So now that that's completed we can type darker images.
Dash dash filter
reference equals DCT bash container to tag our instance and then we're going to run Docker run bash
T dash I dash P 80 colon 80 DCT dash container
and so ignore the message here that says it can determine the service fully qualified domain name that's
okay.
What we should find now is if we come back to the ECS management console grab that public IP address
and put it in.
Sure enough this is our container.
So this is the message that we should see says this is a container installed from our DCT container
image in the DCT ECR repository.
Of course it's not in the actual ECR repository at this moment but it will be soon so we can come back
and we know that containers working I can do a control C or command C and that stops the container from
running.
And what we want to do now is actually copy this container to ECR.
So I'm just gonna paste in these commands.. are quite long.
So what we're putting in is aws ecr.
Create dash repository and then we give it the repository name DCT ECR.
And in this case I'm going to put it in this ap-southeast-2 so that's being created.
We can see the IP.
We then going to run this come on Docker tag DCT container and then we need to give it the AWS accounts
I.D. and the ECR region.
So what I need to do there is take this information and I'm going to copy that and then I'm just gonna
backspace here
and paste that in we're then going to retrieve the log in information by running this command aws ecr
get log in no include email and then the region.
And so I have an error there because I have a dash where I shouldn't do so that should be ap-southeast-2.
So I'm just going to try that again and this is what we should see.
So now we have the log in information.
And so you want to copy all of this text and then paste it
and press enter and we have a logging succeeded
so we now authenticated and we can put the docker push command in.
And again we need to specify the accounts I.D. in the region.
So I'm going to backspace here and I'm gonna go back up and copy this same repository where you are.
And now we can see our image is actually being pushed up into our ECR repository.
So while that's happening let's head over and have a look at ECR in the console
so we have repositories here and you can see there's a hello repository from a previous exercise and
we've got this DCT ECR repository and here we can see we have an image have an image tag.
And that was just created now.
And what I want to do is just copy this image you are I again make sure I've got that with the latest
on the end as well and we're going to go to clusters.
What we're going to do now is use the get started with it which creates a Fargate cluster.
We're gonna choose configure we're going to call this ECR test.
Put in the you are right to our image.
We're going to specify 200 for memory 80 for the port.
And we're going to go down a few units and put in 100 and we don't need for anything else.
So we just click update and then we'll click next and we don't need a load balancer
we'll call.
Call the cluster ECR test and it's going to create a new VPC.
Remember that using cloudformation.
Now we can click Create so it appears to have finished.
Let's go to view service and see if our task is running and it of pending state right now and now the
task appears to be running.
Let's go into the task and find out what its public IP is going to copy that IP address and sure enough
there we go.
So we now have a container running on Fargate.
And we really have this time pulled the image down from our ECR repository.
So just to recap what we've done is we've installed Docker on an EC2 instance.
We've downloaded and have been to image and then we've customized that image uploaded it to the ECI
registry which we created from the command line and then launched a Fargate cluster with a task that
pulled that image down.
So that's pretty cool.
It is a little bit outside of the exam requirements but hopefully you've had some fun doing that.
What we can do now is clean up our repository by deleting it.
So we do NWS ACR delete repository repository name once called DCT ECR and I specify the region and
dash dash force on the end.
And so that should be gone.
Let's head back and have a quick look at ECR
and the DCT ECR repository is gone and then back in ECS we can quite simply go into our cluster and
type delete me and that's it for cleaning up.
And for this lab and we're actually finished now with ECS and in the next lab we're going to have a
look at Elastic Kubernetes service.